Q1 . How to create an object in java ? 
Ans : The most common method to create objects in java is with a new keyword . There two things about a object what it does and what it knows. What is does is  method and what it knows is variable .
Syntax : Text obj = new obj();


Q2. What is the use of a New keyword in Java?
Ans : New keyword is used to create an instance of an object . In the heap area it allocates a memory and the reference of that memory is returned in the stack area .


Q3. What are the different types of variables in Java?
Ans : There are three type of variable in java 
1.  Instance variable - created inside the clas but outside the method 
2. Local Variable : create in class and inside the method no default value is allocated to them . 
3. Static variable : variable belongs to the class itself rather than to any specific instance of the class.


Q4.What is the difference between Instance variables and Local variables?
Ans : 
Instance variable : 
1. Created inside class but outside method 
2. Default value is given in this case such as default value of string in null and integer is 0 
3. Value of the variable is varied from object to object .
4. They are created at the time of object creation and destroyed at the time of object destruction
5. The memory area allocated to them is heap 
6. There will be no error in declaring them without assigning the value 
7. For every object separate copy of instance variable is created 


Local Variable : 
1. The memory allocation given to them is stack 
2. They are created as a part of block execution 
3. There is no default value given to the local variable 
4. They are created inside the method 
5. The access area of local variable is method only 


Q5 . In which area memory is allocated for instance variable and local variable?
Ans : the memory allocated to instance variable is heap and the memory allocated to local variable is stack . 


Q6 . What is method overloading?
Ans : When two or more methods have same name but the return type of number of arguments are different that it is called method overloading