Q1. why do we need static keyword in java programming ? 
Ans : Static keyword is used for memory management in java . 
It can be applied to method , variable and block . 
It is different from other access modifiers such as public , private and protected . 
static method need not any object for it's execution they can be directly accessed by class name . 
static block and static variable are initialised at the time of class loading . 
once static keyword is used that it's  value will remain same throughout the program .
static method , variable and block are object independent . 

Q2. What is class loading and how does the Java program actually executes?
Ans : The process of loading class file into JVM at runtime is called class loading . It is responsible for loading various classes from various sources suchas file system , network and database and making available for JVM for execution . the process of class loading is divided into three phases loading , linking and initialization . 
loading is the phase where classloader locates the file . 
linking is the phase where JVM perform operation on the class object . 
Execution is the process where JVM initialize the class variable with the default value . 

Q3. Can we mark a local variable as static?
Ans : In order to make a varible static we need to use static keyword so , we can not makr local variable as static. 

Q4.  Why is a static method also called a class method?
Ans: Static method is also called as class varible because it can be accessed by class name directly without any use of the object . 
Static method are object independent so , they are called class method . 

Q5. Why is the static block executed before the main method in java?
Ans : Whenever we use static keyword than that is object independent and we need not to make object in the main method . 
The memory for static block is given at the time of class loading so , static block is executed before main method . 

Q6. What is the use of static keyword Explain with an example
Ans: static keyoword is used for memory management . when we need to use a thing at multiple places with same value than we use static keyword . whenever static keyword is used than that belongs to class rather than the object of that class . They are initialised at the time of class loading . 
example : 

class Demo { 
    static int n; 
    static int m ; 

    static{
        system.out.println("static block")
        n = 10 ;
        m = 12 ;
     }
    static void display (){
        system.out.println("static method")
    }
}
class StaticMethod {
public static void main (String[] args){
    Demo.display();
}
}

Q7. What is the difference between static variable and instance variable ? 
Ans : instance variable are created inside the class and outside the method and static varible are created using static keyword 
static varible are object independent and instance varib are object dependent . 
The value of static variable remains same throughout the program but the value of instance variable varies from object to object . 
static variable are initialized at the time of class loading and instance variable are initialized at the time of object creation 

Q8 what is the difference between the static and non-static member of the class ? 
Ans: static member are class member and non-static member are object member . 
the memory is allocated at the time of class loading for static member and memory is allocated at the time of object creation . 
the value of static variable remain same throughout the program and the value of instance variable varies from object to object . 
for static varible we need to use static keyword 
